# bitirme-projem

This project is developing based on Tiny ML. 

   Air pollution is one of the biggest environmental threat to human health on a global scale. Outdoor and indoor air pollution causes 7 million premature deaths in the world every year. Air pollution was listed among the most important risk factors for chronic diseases in Europe for the first time. Air pollution causes many chronic diseases, but this situation cannot be monitored. There is only 25-40% of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease(COPD) patients know that they have COPD in developed countries, remains are either don't know that they have COPD or misdiagnosed. With the being preferred to established of Thermal Power Plant to the rural areas, it becomes hard to monitore the lung diseases. 

   Respiratory auscultation is a safe, inexpensive, and easy-to-apply method used in the diagnosis of lung diseases and by itself, it does not provide sufficient information about the disease. For the doctor to reach a definitive diagnosis of the disease, the doctor needs to use medical devices that cost more than a stethoscope. Pathological sounds are determined from characteristic sounds such as wheezing, and crackling; cyclical features of the sound. The need to evaluate multiple conditions during auscultation makes disease diagnosis difficult. This situation causes difficulty in reaching a diagnosis about what the sound is and which disease it indicates, especially in Family Physicians with less auscultation experience. The lack of medical devices such as CT and X-Ray, which are necessary for the diagnosis of lung diseases, are not included in the list of required equipment in Family Health Centers. 

   In recent years, with the advancement of microcontrollers, it has become pos-sible to use machine learning and deep learning in edge devices. This method is called Tiny ML; in this way, both the advantages of the microcontroller and the power of machine learning can be utilized. Tiny ML is an alternative approach in which machine learning tasks are per-formed on the device, thus enabling real-time analysis and interpretation of data, consuming milliwatts of energy it stands out as a network latency-free, data-protected and inexpensive method. Along with these, it is necessary to mention the limitations of Tiny ML: To fit the machine learning model inside the device; optimization of the tools and libraries used as shortcuts in software development, referred to as "frameworks" in the literature.
   
   In this study, the conceptual framework of a ready-to-use device proposal based on Tiny ML method, which is cheap, low in energy consumption, does not require internet connection, thus preventing network latency and ensuring data security, is explained. It is thought that it would be beneficial for Family Physicians to diagnose and follow the lung conditions of patients with a lack of advanced medical devices in FHC.
   
  
